(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Okay, I hope you're up
for the final challenge.
In this challenge,
the Landon Hotel has created another class
named BookingService that manages the booking of guests
into rooms in the hotel.
They've started work on the class
by adding a hash map named bookings.
This map will store each room and its associated guests,
but they need your help in completing a few methods.
The first is the book method.
It's provided with a room
and a guest that would like to stay in the room.
The method will place the guest in the room
only if another guest is not staying within it.
The return value of the method is a Boolean that indicates
if placing the guest in the room was successful.
The next method totalRevenue is used to obtain
the current amount of revenue using a calculation
that sums the rates of all booked rooms.
You want to make sure that you complete these methods
in the order they're specified.
And like other challenges, unit tests have been provided
to validate your work once you've finished.
So go ahead, pause the video and work on your solution.
When you're ready,
you can resume the video and I'll walk you through mine.
Welcome back. Did you enjoy the challenge?
I'm going to dive right in to my solution.
For the first method book,
we needed to create an association for the provided key
and the provided guest within our map,
but only if the room was not associated
with a guest in the map already.
So this was a great spot to use
the map's putIfAbsent method.
So on our bookings map, I went ahead and invoked it,
passing in the room and the guest as arguments.
This method will not create an association in the map
if one already exists for the key that we provide.
So if our room is already associated
with a guest in the map, it won't create that association.
In that case, it's just going to return the current value
associated with the key.
Now, if it does create a new association, it returns null.
So I can just evaluate the return value
of the method against null,
which is going to produce a Boolean
that I can return from the method to indicate whether or not
we booked a guest in a room.
So that completed my work for the book method.
And I moved on to work on the totalRevenue method.
This method required us to get the rate of each room
in the booking map and total them
in order to determine how much revenue the hotel is making.
So to do this,
I invoked the keySet method on the map
to get a collection view
that contained all of the keys within the map.
So now I have a collection of the map's keys.
And you'll recall that the map's key type is room,
so it's a collection of rooms.
I took that collection and I streamed it.
On the stream,
I was able to invoke the mapToDouble method.
And then here. I could just pass in a method reference
to the room's getRate method.
This would produce a double stream
and on that double stream,
I could invoke the sum method to perform a calculation
that totaled all of the rooms' rates
and that got me the total revenue.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll test out that solution.
So in the unit test,
I'm just going to right-click go to run as and JUnit test.
Excellent. It passed.
So I hope you enjoyed this challenge working with the map
and got to better know some of its methods.